Enhanced Nathan Kline Institute - Rockland Sample
==================================================

.. figure:: /_images/nki.png
    :align: center

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   Recruitment <recruit>
   Participant Schedule <sched>
   MRI Protocol <mri_protocol>
   Assessments <assessments>
   Sample Characteristics <demo>
   Data Sharing <sharing>
   NKI-RS Lite Releases <download>
   Publications <pubs>

Introduction
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The enhanced Nathan Kline Institute-Rockland Sample (NKI-RS) is an
ongoing, institutionally centered endeavor aimed at creating a
large-scale (N > 1000) community sample of participants across the
lifespan. Measures include a wide array of physiological and
psychological assessments, genetic information, and advanced
neuroimaging. Anonymized data will be publicly shared openly and
prospectively (i.e., on a quarterly basis).

The National Institute of Mental Health strategic plan for advancing
psychiatric neuroscience calls for increased discovery science
initiatives in an effort to deliniate developmental trajectories for
risk and resilience across the lifespan. Such initiatives require large,
openly accessible datasets that contain sufficient detail to enable the
generation and testing of multiple hypotheses. The NKI-RS is intended to
help meet this need.

The NKI-RS Team
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Leadership**

Michael Milham, MD, PhD, (co-founder of NKI-Rockland Sample Initiative,
Principal Investigator for Cross-sectional Lifespan Connectomics and
Longitudinal Developmental Connectomics studies; Director of the Center
for Biomedical Imaging and Neuromodulation [C-BIN]), Cameron Craddock,
PhD, (Principal Investigator for the Real-time Neurofeedback study;
Director of the Computational Neuroimaging Laboratory, C-BIN), Russ
Tobe, MD, (Director of NKI Outpatient Research Program), Anna
MacKay-Brandt, PhD, (Clinical Neuropsychologist), Stan Colcombe, PhD,
(Director of Design, Acquisition and Stimulation Laboratiory, C-BIN),
Bennett Leventhal, MD, (co-founder of NKI-Rockland Sample Initiative,
UCSF), F. Xavier Castellanos, MD, (co-founder of NKI-Rockland Sample
Initiative, Director of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, NKI)

**Clinical Evaluation and Phenotyping**

Melissa Breland, MA, Steven Carter, Melissa Kramer, Alexis Lieval, LMSW,
Amalia McDonald, Laura Panek, RN, Hayley Reed, Lauren Walden, Abigail
Waters, Erica Ho, Michelle Kaplan, Enitan Marcelle, Ayesha Anwar
(alumnus), Shaquanna Brown (alumnus), Caitlin Hinz (alumnus), Stephanie
Kamiel (alumnus), Kate Nooner (alumnus), Anna Rachlin (alumnus),
Christine Santiago (alumnus), Steve Zavitz (alumnus)

**Imaging**

Cathy Hu, Raj Sangoi, Stan Colcombe, Cameron Craddock

**Programming, Technical and Analytic Support**

David O’Conner, Daniel Clark, David Lewis, Sharad Sikka (alumnus),
Daniel Lurie (alumnus), Ranjit Khanuja (alumnus), Qingyang Li (alumnus),
Brian Cheung (alumnus)

**Neuroinformatics** (`Mind Research Network <http://www.mrn.org/>`_)

Vince Calhoun, Will Courtney, Margaret King, Susan Lane, Adam Scott,
Runtang Wang, and Dylan Wood

**Communications**

Stacey Ascher, Bruce Grover, Dawn Thomsen (alumnus), Nancy Duan
(alumnus)

**Miscellaneous Support and Guidance**

Bharat Biswal, Chrissie Cox, Adriana Di Martino, David Guilfoyle, Matt
Hoptman, Brett Lullo, Clare Kelly, Daniel Margulies, Nunzio Pomara, John
Sidtis, Xi-Nian Zuo

*Special thanks to Cameron Craddock for his assistance in designing the
test-retest dataset and helping to troubleshoot its various phases, as
well as providing the task paradigms; to Kamil Urgurbil, Eddie Auerbach,
Junquian Gordon Xu and Steen Moeller from the HCP for assistance with
the implementation of the multiband sequences and reconstruction
algorithms; to Satrajit Ghosh for his guidance in the development of our
DICOM anonymization protocol; and as always - to Maarten Mennes for his
efforts overseeing the INDI team.*

Funding
^^^^^^^^

Principal support for the enhanced NKI-RS project is provided by the
`NIMH BRAINS
R01MH094639-01 <http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-MH-11-050.html>`_
(PI Milham). Funding for key personnel also provided in part by the New
York State Office of Mental Health and Research Foundation for Mental
Hygiene. Funding for the decompression and augmentation of
administrative and phenotypic protocols provided by a grant from the
`Child Mind Institute <http://childmind.org>`_ (1FDN2012-1). Additional
personnel support provided by the Center for the Developing Brain at the
Child Mind Institute, as well as NIMH R01MH081218, R01MH083246, and
R21MH084126. Project support also provided by the `NKI Center for
Advanced Brain Imaging (CABI) <http://claymore.rfmh.org/>`_, the `Brain
Research Foundation <http://thebrf.org>`_, and the `Stavros Niarchos
Foundation <http://www.snf.org/>`_.

Funding: Real-Time Neurofeedback
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Principal support for the Real-Time Neurofeedback project is provided by
the NIMH BRAINS R01-MH101555 (PI Craddock).

Acknowledgements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We would like to thank Lawrence Maayan for his key role in the design
and execution of the pilot NKI-RS, David Guilfoyle for his assistance
with human imaging, and Raj Sangoi and Caixia Hu for the many hours
contributed to scanning and providing invaluable feedback. Also, special
thanks to Randy Buckner for providing us the specifications for the
Brain Genomics Superstruct’s Common Acquisition Protocol, which formed
the basis of the imaging protocol in the pilot phase; to Kamil Urgurbil,
Eddie Auerbach, Junquian Gordon Xu, and Steen Moeller from the HCP for
assistance with the implementation of the multiband sequences and
reconstruction algorithms; and to Satrajit Ghosh for his guidance in the
development of our DICOM anonymization protocol.
